even though i love seo and social media
marketing and content marketing
you can't do one or the other one is
better than the other you now have to
take an omni channel approach to do well
without that you won't do well in the
market
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
welcome to my channel how we doing
good thanks for having me
pleasure neil uh neil um taking you to
the format so i'll ask a few personal
questions and then some questions with
respect to the industry and then we'll
have a quick round of rapid fire so are
you game
i'm game perfect so let's get started my
first question to you is
how did you manage to build your empire
and what were those first five steps
that you took to get this thing rolling
ah
i don't know if i have an empire but i
built my business not overnight it's
been 17 years now wow and the key is you
just lay brick by brick there's no
simple solution you just really got to
do
you know each and every single task the
way i look at it is you'll have goals in
your business
think about what your goals are over the
year now break them down into 12 months
so what do you need to do each month to
hit those goals now break that down into
each week then break it down to each day
and then break down the task
into things that could be get done in an
hour and have a daily checklist so if
you accomplish them you're much more
likely to hit your
annual goal and that's how you just
continually grow which you keep creating
those checklists each day and you make
sure you don't go to sleep until it's
all done and if the task is
too big to finish in one day then you
need to break it down to being smaller
and smaller
fantastic
that's interesting tips up there so how
do you manage to stay fit what's your
daily schedule like uh how's your
morning routine like
sure so there's this guy on youtube
called the body coach his name is joe so
i do a 15 minute hit workout high
intensity interval training or something
like that every day some days i get lazy
but around at least five days a week
uh that's that helps me quite a bit i
also do intermittent fasting
i'll only eat between 11 a.m and 6 p.m
and then the rest of the time i don't
eat so between those two things stay
pretty healthy and i also don't eat
unhealthy foods so like no fried food so
no samosas
you know i try to keep low on the carbs
a lot of vegetables
no unhealthy food like mayonnaise or
cheese or fried food or any of that
fantastic i think that's quite a lot of
learning because a lot of digital
marketers do have a lot of i mean
unhealed unhealthy eating habits so i
think that's some good advice up there
uh at least
i would want to change my healthy my
lifestyle with respect to that uh so
what's been the most difficult period of
your career
or life so while you were building your
business uh there might have been a lot
of obstacles so
so
uh
if you would like to share some tips up
there
yeah i've had a lot of ups and downs um
you know when
things get going they don't always work
the way you want so
i've made money i've lost money you know
it was funny when i was 16.
i tend not to talk too much about how
much money i make i talk more about my
failures and i'm not saying i make good
money or anything like that either i'm
not trying to imply anything
but i'll give you revenue figures when i
was 16 i started consulting i got lucky
i was doing around 20 000 a month in
revenue
but as time was 21 i lost it all plus i
was in debt another million dollars
and i tried creating a cloud computing
company
uh
back in the day before it was popular
uh if it worked i would have been rich
but it didn't you know to luck of the
draw
and what i learned is
you're going to go through ups and downs
as an entrepreneur not everything is the
way you want and that's okay just stay
focused then
over time you'll do well there's not
much you can end up doing in the short
run to
solve your problems or
uh you know avoid some of these things
it's just more so you're gonna have to
go through the ups and downs and know
that entrepreneurship is like a roller
coaster and be okay with it there's good
moments bad moments scary moments happy
moments you just gotta accept it all
fantastic and most importantly learn
from all your mistakes
so
when do you plan to visit india and host
training programs here
any plans for 2019
i i thought about it my problem is i
don't have a business partner in india
to handle it all if i had a business
partner in india i would do it but it's
too hard to find someone
that's the part i struggle with lovely
so i'll pitch you for that
perfect how indian are you neil i mean
i'm sure you are a gujarati person so
i'm 100 indian
indian food a lot it's my favorite food
uh i speak
fluent gujarati
um my blog i started translating a lot
of the content in hindi it's doing well
wow
i don't have enough hindi writers if i
had more hindi writers i'll translate it
at all
uh but yeah i i love india you know it's
just it's my heritage i want my kids to
be gujarati oh wow that's good so uh so
you believe that vernacular language has
uh played a very important role right
now of because i heard that you have
started translating your blog in hindi
language so how did it make a difference
uh it helped with traffic but i did it
not necessarily for traffic i don't make
money from india um
i lose money in india more than anything
else because for me to put cost into
translating none of my customers are
from india so it's just
it's a
it's a cost sink but i don't look at it
that way i'm indian so might as well
help on my own people i don't care if i
make money from india or not i'm from
there so why not help them i wasn't born
there but nonetheless why not help out
my own people fantastic you know uh i
have in on my youtube channel a lot of
my videos are absolutely free
and you have inspired me a lot because i
heard one of your videos where you say
that why have you started uploading
videos on youtube and why you do not run
advertisements on them so that's a very
inspiring meal there's a lot of content
which is available for free and i think
you inspire the entire world so
congratulations on doing great work so
i'm moving on to the next phase where
i'm asking you some questions with
respect to the industry uh social media
marketing versus su what's your personal
favorite and why when i first started it
was all about seo okay and then dig came
around which isn't that popular i don't
even know if it exists anymore and then
read it
and when you look at all these social
sites i used to do very well because i'm
like oh it's a great way to get traffic
and links
now
when i was building a business when i
was starting off you can build it just
through one channel just like how
facebook grew through the referral
system do you remember all you would
invite all your friends in your address
book to facebook and that's how they
grew
but now if a new company came out and
leveraged that tactic they wouldn't do
that well because everyone would look at
it as spam
same with seo the algorithms are harder
same with social media marketing the
algorithms are hotter
so even though i love seo and social
media marketing and content marketing
you can't do one or the other one is
better than the other you now have to
take an omni channel approach to do well
without that you won't do well in the
market
fantastic the question is neil how
important it is to invest in good
visuals in content marketing
uh it's it's very important the more
images and the visuals and infographics
you can invest in the better off you are
whether it's video
uh or infographics or images as they say
uh image or in some cases even a video
will say a thousand words if not more
okay so we all know for the fact that
you know um facebook's organic reach is
slowly dying
um so where would you invest in 2019
instagram or facebook what would you
recommend to your followers
they're both okay you should be on both
channels but i would pick youtube
youtube will do better than all of them
so you know you say that 2020 is all
about youtubing uh that's not 2019 2019
all about youtube 2019 is all about
youtubing fantastic
so i watch
you can get the search traffic and it
drives a lot of traffic and it can give
you consistent traffic over time
absolutely
yeah go ahead yeah yeah but the
beautiful part is if you already create
a youtube video you can take the same
video and upload it to
facebook and linkedin and then just
include srt files because not everyone
has their speakers turned on right and
it also creates a lot of face value
because people hear you uh talking so
um
okay why
should someone post four times a day on
instagram stories because i've watched
one of your videos and you've shared
that tip so why should someone do that
because many people just post one story
a day and you have recommended four
stories and they are why is that so
the more stories you do the better off
you are even doing 12 or 24 just helps
because the more people see your content
you just start showing up
so this should be uploaded together or
we need to break this into different
intervals
break it into different intervals
different times of the day break it up
like doing one every hour is right here
okay
uh
youtubing versus
blogging what's the best for 2020
the best for 2020 is
i i think youtube will still be more
popular uh we'll have not be more
popular content marketing will be more
popular but youtube will have easier
traction it'll be easier to gain
momentum in 2020 on video than it will
on text see there's over a billion blogs
right now so the numbers gonna get worse
that's one blog for every seven people
it's saturated
video marketing right now isn't
saturated yet so whoever adopts early is
gonna win
superb
um so one last question from the uh
industries perspective what are those
five crucial content marketing trend you
see in uh 2019 that someone should
follow
in 2019 so i'll pick five one podcasting
and video is picking up they're easier
uh to optimize for so do podcast seo do
youtube seo that would be my first tip
second is
even all these forms of marketing voice
video audio tech space it's eventually
going to get saturated as well
so start creating freemium products or
services
like tools
my friend has a company called smackney
which is a acne cream he does
free trial just pay for shipping so you
can you got to get creative to get more
traffic the third tip is voice search 50
of the people will be using voice search
by 2020 according to comscore so
optimize for voice search
the fourth tip i would have for you is
ads are going to continually go up in
expenses during the last recession
google still generated more revenue
so assume that that's going to happen
all over again so you need to optimize
for conversions uh things like a b
testing split test all those kind of
things will help
the fifth tip i have for you is
build a brand
brands convert better than non-brands
really truly genuinely try to help
people
fantastic sounds good so uh moving to
the last part of the uh session uh neil
and it's a quick rapid fire question so
are you game for this one because this
is not fun yeah okay so you wake up to
realize neil
is hacked and how would you react
i would be upset and tell my developer
to fix it
fantastic simple stuff since you're from
india and i understand that you know
gujarati
or hindi uh would you mind if i say
something in english and you need to
translate that in the language uh that
you're more comfortable with either
hindi or gujarati
sure i'm a bit rusty but let's go for it
let's do it now
i don't speak it that often in america
right there's not too many people here
but let's try okay so
so it is uh i love digital marketing and
i cannot live without it
ah that's tough
uh mana digital marketing
and i don't know how to say and i can't
live without it
i got the first part but
see i used to speak in gujarati a lot
more with my grandparents they're no
longer around but
i've been rusty for
four or five years okay but i i
understand it better than i speak it so
when my parents speak it
my parents actually don't even talk to
girathi but when they do talk i
understand it okay so if mark ever ask
you mark zuckerberg ever ask you what is
that one change that you would like to
bring on their platform what would you
recommend him
you know facebook's gonna do whatever
makes them more money they're a business
whether we like it or not when it comes
to fake news privacy or any of this the
one thing i would love is uh
and he won't do it it would be you know
if people follow you organically
don't cram down the reach actually let
my content be seen but he's not going to
make a thing if i had to give him one
piece of advice that he's more likely to
follow although he probably won't do it
either it would be turn facebook into a
subscription option you know they got to
show ads whether you like it or not
they're not going to always stop all the
political stuff or whatever it may be
but i would pay 10 a month not to see
any of it and i bet you a lot of other
people would as well
right
so um
so rate this platform and
you have to rate them and you have to
place them in order on their popularity
or what you would believe is the most
popular of all
uh the tools are twitter linkedin
facebook instagram quora snapchat and
youtube i repeat twitter linkedin
let me know if i miss any
i'm gonna go based off of their mass
potential not their popularity because
that's more useful okay youtube number
one
linkedin number two
uh
twitter number three for instagram
five facebook
uh
six quora quora does it quora's easy to
get views but not too many people will
click through and go back to your site
and then the last one is snapchat
because i believe facebook is going to
keep crushing them
right
um did i miss any
no no you you got it you got it all so
that's that's good one so name three
digital marketers you admire the most
brian dean from backlinko i think he's
awesome and amazing
um
andrew chen he's awesome good growth
marketer he's now andreessen horowitz uh
sean ellis another good growth marketer
i know these aren't all common names
i'll even give you a fourth one that i
really admire larry kim he's an amazing
marketer and he's an engineer so when
you combine both of them he does really
well i would put larry in the top three
for sure he's good fantastic three tools
that you think every digital marketer
must use
uber suggests because it's my tool and
it's free so enjoy it
it's pretty popular in india it's the
most popular region for the tool right
um
another one that i love is google
analytics without tracking your data you
don't know what's happening and if i had
to pick a
third tool that everyone should end up
using
it would be any survey tool you want
whether it's surveymonkey
uh you can pick whatever survey tool you
want they have a free version because
most digital marketing people look at
the numbers but they never analyze what
their users want by actually talking to
them and you're probably people are lazy
to talk to them over the phone so survey
them really get to know your customers
do customer development that'll make
your marketing change by leaps and
bounds and get way better
fantastic so if you have to give a shout
out to someone at your office today
because you think he or she is your
backbone who would it be
uh nick roshan
uh
he's my vp of sales and also partner in
the company
and nick
does more than just sales he's awesome
superb and one last question to you
what's the biggest life lie you have
ever told to a client of yours
biggest what biggest lie
[Music]
i remember when i was younger it was a
potential customer
and to get the deal they're like do you
have experience managing other similar
accounts i think it was like 19 or 20 at
the time and i should have never done it
but i told them i've worked with other
bigger companies and i didn't mention
any names but i just told them i worked
with other bigger companies so i can get
the contract i should have never done it
though
that's how most of the guys enter
companies up there all right uh thank
you so much neil it was wonderful
hosting you um
you had patiently answered all my
questions and i look forward to host you
in india too so let's stay connected
for sure